roles/galaxyprojectdotorg.nginx/README.md, before:

nginx
=====

An [Ansible][ansible] role for installing and managing [nginx][nginx] servers.

[ansible]: http://www.ansible.com/
[nginx]: http://nginx.org/

Requirements
------------

This role installs nginx from APT, so you must be on a Debian-based system.

Role Variables
--------------

### Optional variables ###

- `nginx_flavor` (default: `full`): nginx package to install (for choices, see
  the `nginx` metapackage providers for your Debian-based distribution).
- `nginx_configs`: A list of virtualhost (relative to `templates/nginx/`). 
- `nginx_conf_http`: Set arbitrary options in the `http{}` section of
  `nginx.conf`. This is a hash (dictionary) where keys are nginx config options
  and values are the option's value.

These variables control the use of SSL. If unset, SSL will not be enabled. See
Example Playbook for usage.

- `nginx_ssl_src_dir`: Where to copy SSL certificates from.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate`: Path on the remote host where the SSL
  certificate file should be placed.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key`: Path on the remote host where the SSL
  private key file should be placed.
- `sslkeys`: A hash (dictionary) containing private keys. Keys are the
  filenames (without leading path elements) matching
  `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key`.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_ciphers`: The `ssl_ciphers` option in `nginx.conf`.

Dependencies
------------

None

Example Playbook
----------------

Install nginx with SSL:

```
- name: Install and configure nginx
  hosts: webservers
  remote_user: root
  vars:
    sslkeys:
      'snakeoil_privatekey.pem': |
        -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
        MIIE...
        -----END PRIVATE KEY-----
    nginx_conf_ssl_certificate: snakeoil_cert.pem
    nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key: snakeoil_privatekey.pem
    nginx_ssl_src_dir: files/ssl
    nginx_configs:
      - vhost1
      - vhost2
    nginx_conf_http:
      client_max_body_size: 1g
  roles:
    - galaxyprojectdotorg.nginx
```

License
-------

[Academic Free License ("AFL") v. 3.0][afl]

[afl]: http://opensource.org/licenses/AFL-3.0

Author Information
------------------

[Nate Coraor](https://github.com/natefoo)

Commit message:

Switch Main to use CVMFS (still needs /galaxy/main symlinks for shed_tools, migrated_tools, and deps), and also move all of the nginx handling here from the private playbook. And use the updated nginx role to install "Galaxy nginx", which is basically an updated and recompiled (with Starforge!) version of EPEL nginx.

roles/galaxyprojectdotorg.nginx/README.md, after:

nginx
=====

An [Ansible][ansible] role for installing and managing [nginx][nginx] servers.
This role does **not** install a version of nginx that includes the nginx
upload module, which [Galaxy][galaxy] uses. Adding support for the Galaxy
builds of nginx is a TODO item.

[ansible]: http://www.ansible.com/
[nginx]: http://nginx.org/
[galaxy]: http://galaxyproject.org/

Requirements
------------

This role installs nginx from APT on Debian systems, or EPEL on Enterprise
Linux systems.  Other systems and installation methods are not supported.

Role Variables
--------------

### Optional variables ###

- `nginx_flavor` (default: `full`): nginx package to install (for choices, see
  the `nginx` metapackage providers for your Debian-based distribution). On
  RedHat-based distributions, this can either be `galaxy` (for "Galaxy nginx",
  which includes the nginx upload and pam modules), or any other value for EPEL
  nginx.
- `nginx_configs`: A list of virtualhosts (relative to `templates/nginx/`). 
- `nginx_conf_http`: Set arbitrary options in the `http{}` section of
  `nginx.conf`. This is a hash (dictionary) where keys are nginx config options
  and values are the option's value.
- `nginx_default_redirect_uri`: When using nginx from EPEL, a default
  virtualhost is enabled. This option controls what URI the default virtualhost
  should be redirected to. nginx variables are supported.
- `nginx_supervisor`: Run nginx under supervisor (requires setting certain
  supervisor variables).

These variables control the use of SSL. If unset, SSL will not be enabled. See
Example Playbook for usage.

- `nginx_ssl_src_dir`: Where to copy SSL certificates from.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate`: Path on the remote host where the SSL
  certificate file should be placed.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key`: Path on the remote host where the SSL
  private key file should be placed.
- `sslkeys`: A hash (dictionary) containing private keys. Keys are the
  filenames (without leading path elements) matching
  `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key`.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_ciphers`: The `ssl_ciphers` option in `nginx.conf`.

Dependencies
------------

Although not a requirement, [geerlingguy.repo-epel][repo-epel] can be used to
enable EPEL with Ansible.

[repo-epel]: https://galaxy.ansible.com/geerlingguy/repo-epel/

Example Playbook
----------------

Install nginx with SSL:

```
- name: Install and configure nginx
  hosts: webservers
  remote_user: root
  vars:
    sslkeys:
      'snakeoil_privatekey.pem': |
        -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
        MIIE...
        -----END PRIVATE KEY-----
    nginx_conf_ssl_certificate: snakeoil_cert.pem
    nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key: snakeoil_privatekey.pem
    nginx_ssl_src_dir: files/ssl
    nginx_configs:
      - vhost1
      - vhost2
    nginx_conf_http:
      client_max_body_size: 1g
  roles:
    - galaxyprojectdotorg.nginx
```

License
-------

[Academic Free License ("AFL") v. 3.0][afl]

[afl]: http://opensource.org/licenses/AFL-3.0

Author Information
------------------

[Nate Coraor](https://github.com/natefoo)
