roles/galaxyproject.nginx/README.md, before:

nginx
=====

An [Ansible][ansible] role for installing and managing [nginx][nginx] servers.
This role can install a version of nginx that includes the nginx upload module,
which [Galaxy][galaxy] uses, **on Enterprise Linux-based systems only.** Adding
support for the Galaxy builds of nginx on Debian-based systems is a TODO item.

[ansible]: http://www.ansible.com/
[nginx]: http://nginx.org/
[galaxy]: http://galaxyproject.org/

Requirements
------------

This role installs nginx from APT on Debian systems, EPEL on Enterprise Linux
systems, or pkgin on SmartOS.  Other systems and installation methods are not
supported.

Role Variables
--------------

### Optional variables ###

- `nginx_flavor` (default: `full`): nginx package to install (for choices, see
  the `nginx` metapackage providers for your Debian-based distribution). On
  RedHat-based distributions, this can either be `galaxy` (for "Galaxy nginx",
  which includes the nginx upload and pam modules), or any other value for EPEL
  nginx. This value is not used on pkgin/SmartOS installations.
- `nginx_configs`: A list of virtualhosts (relative to `templates/nginx/`). 
- `nginx_conf_http`: Set arbitrary options in the `http{}` section of
  `nginx.conf`. This is a hash (dictionary) where keys are nginx config options
  and values are the option's value.
- `nginx_default_redirect_uri`: When using nginx from EPEL, a default
  virtualhost is enabled. This option controls what URI the default virtualhost
  should be redirected to. nginx variables are supported.
- `nginx_enable_default_server` (default: `true`): Enable/disable the default
  EPEL virtualhost.
- `nginx_supervisor`: Run nginx under supervisor (requires setting certain
  supervisor variables).

These variables control the use of SSL. If unset, SSL will not be enabled. See
Example Playbook for usage.

- `nginx_ssl_src_dir`: Where to copy SSL certificates from.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate`: Path on the remote host where the SSL
  certificate file should be placed.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key`: Path on the remote host where the SSL
  private key file should be placed.
- `sslkeys`: A hash (dictionary) containing private keys. Keys are the
  filenames (without leading path elements) matching
  `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key`.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_ciphers`: The `ssl_ciphers` option in `nginx.conf`.

Dependencies
------------

Although not a requirement, [geerlingguy.repo-epel][repo-epel] can be used to
enable EPEL with Ansible.

[repo-epel]: https://galaxy.ansible.com/geerlingguy/repo-epel/

Example Playbook
----------------

Install nginx with SSL:

```
- name: Install and configure nginx
  hosts: webservers
  remote_user: root
  vars:
    sslkeys:
      'snakeoil_privatekey.pem': |
        -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
        MIIE...
        -----END PRIVATE KEY-----
    nginx_conf_ssl_certificate: snakeoil_cert.pem
    nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key: snakeoil_privatekey.pem
    nginx_ssl_src_dir: files/ssl
    nginx_configs:
      - vhost1
      - vhost2
    nginx_conf_http:
      client_max_body_size: 1g
  roles:
    - galaxyproject.nginx
```

License
-------

[Academic Free License ("AFL") v. 3.0][afl]

[afl]: http://opensource.org/licenses/AFL-3.0

Author Information
------------------

[Nate Coraor](https://github.com/natefoo)

Commit message:

Disable TLS 1.0, enable OCSP stapling,  and upgrade to more secure ciphers on Test,

roles/galaxyproject.nginx/README.md, after:

nginx
=====

An [Ansible][ansible] role for installing and managing [nginx][nginx] servers.
This role can install a version of nginx that includes the nginx upload module,
which [Galaxy][galaxy] uses, **on Enterprise Linux-based systems only.** Adding
support for the Galaxy builds of nginx on Debian-based systems is a TODO item.

[ansible]: http://www.ansible.com/
[nginx]: http://nginx.org/
[galaxy]: http://galaxyproject.org/

Requirements
------------

This role installs nginx from APT on Debian systems, EPEL on Enterprise Linux
systems, or pkgin on SmartOS.  Other systems and installation methods are not
supported.

Role Variables
--------------

### Optional variables ###

- `nginx_flavor` (default: `full`): nginx package to install (for choices, see the `nginx` metapackage providers for
  your Debian-based distribution). On RedHat-based distributions, this can either be `galaxy` (for "Galaxy nginx", which
  includes the nginx upload and pam modules), or any other value for EPEL nginx. This value is not used on pkgin/SmartOS
  installations.
- `nginx_configs`: A list of virtualhost templates (relative to `templates/nginx/`).
- `nginx_conf_http`: Set arbitrary options in the `http{}` section of `nginx.conf`. This is a hash (dictionary) where
  keys are nginx config options and values are the option's value.
- `nginx_default_redirect_uri`: When using nginx from EPEL, a default virtualhost is enabled. This option controls what
  URI the default virtualhost should be redirected to. nginx variables are supported.
- `nginx_enable_default_server` (default: `true`): Enable/disable the default EPEL virtualhost.
- `nginx_supervisor`: Run nginx under supervisor (requires setting certain supervisor variables).
- `nginx_conf_dir` (default: `/etc/nginx`): nginx configuration directory

These variables control the use of SSL. If unset, SSL will not be enabled. See Example Playbook for usage.

- `nginx_ssl_conf_dir` (default: `<nginx_conf_dir>/ssl`): Where to copy SSL certificates and other SSL-related files to.
- `nginx_ssl_src_dir` (default: `files/ssl`): Where to copy SSL certificates from.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate`: File name of the SSL certificate.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key`: File name of the SSL private key.
- `sslkeys`: A hash (dictionary) containing private keys. Keys are the filenames (without leading path elements) matching
  `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key`.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_ciphers`: The `ssl_ciphers` option in `nginx.conf`, this is a *list*.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_protocols`: The `ssl_protocols` option in `nginx.conf`, this is a *list*.
- `nginx_conf_ssl_trusted_certificate`: File name of trusted certificates for OCSP stapling (setting enables stapling).

For legacy reasons, `nginx_conf_ssl_certificate*` can be absolute paths to the files on the remote host. If this is the
case, the certs are searched for in `nginx_ssl_src_dir` with the directory portion of the path stripped. If the path is
not absolute, it is relative to `nginx_ssl_src_dir` for the source, and relative to `nginx_ssl_conf_dir` for the
destination.

Dependencies
------------

Although not a requirement, [geerlingguy.repo-epel][repo-epel] can be used to enable EPEL with Ansible.

[repo-epel]: https://galaxy.ansible.com/geerlingguy/repo-epel/

Example Playbook
----------------

Install nginx with SSL:

```yaml
- name: Install and configure nginx
  hosts: webservers
  remote_user: root
  vars:
    sslkeys:
      'snakeoil_privatekey.pem': |
        -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
        MIIE...
        -----END PRIVATE KEY-----
    nginx_conf_ssl_certificate: snakeoil_cert.pem
    nginx_conf_ssl_certificate_key: snakeoil_privatekey.pem
    nginx_ssl_src_dir: files/ssl
    nginx_configs:
      - vhost1
      - vhost2
    nginx_conf_http:
      client_max_body_size: 1g
  roles:
    - galaxyproject.nginx
```

License
-------

[Academic Free License ("AFL") v. 3.0][afl]

[afl]: http://opensource.org/licenses/AFL-3.0

Author Information
------------------

[Nate Coraor](https://github.com/natefoo)
